

                         Subject:
                                 RenderMan-related SIGGRAPH events
                         Date:
                                 1999/06/18
                         Author:
                                 Larry Gritz <lg@pixar.com>


                          For those of you who will attend SIGGRAPH '99 in Los Angeles
                          (or are considering doing so), here are some RenderMan-related
                          activities that may interest you:
                           
                           
                           
                          RenderMan Course at SIGGRAPH
                          ----------------------------
                           
                          We are pleased to be repeating last year's successful course,
                          "Advanced RenderMan: Beyond the Companion."  Speakers include
                          Larry Gritz (Pixar), Tony Apodaca (Pixar), Ronen Barzel
                          (Pixar), Clint Hanson (Sony Pictures Imageworks), Doug Epps
                          (Tippet Studios) and Scott Johnston (Fleeting Image
                          Animation).  The course is all-day and will be held on Monday,
                          August 9.
                           
                          The course material is mostly identical to last year, though of
                          course it's somewhat updated and spruced up.  If you attended
                          last year's course, it's up to you whether or not to attend
                          this year's -- feel free to come by for a refresher, or to see
                          what has changed.  If you missed last year (or were among those
                          turned away for lack of
                          seating), you'll definitely want to be there this time.  This
                          is the best and most advanced material we've had in the many
                          courses we've offered over the years.
                           
                           
                           
                          New RenderMan Book
                          ------------------
                           
                          As many of you already know, Tony and I (and several "guest
                          authors") finally finished the book we've been working on,
                          tentatively titled "Advanced RenderMan: Creating CGI for Motion
                          Pictures."  
                           
                          If you liked our course, you're going to love this book -- it
                          not only includes a greatly expanded and much more thorough
                          treatment of the course material, but it's also about four
                          times the content (including many topics we didn't even begin
                          to cover in the course), weighing in at over 450 pages
                          including 24 pages of color plates!
                           
                          We're now slaves to the production process, and it's unclear if
                          books will actually be ready by SIGGRAPH.  In fact, they
                          probably will not be ready in time, although we are holding our
                          breath and crossing our fingers.  But if they're not ready in
                          time, we will definitely have lots of promotional materials and
                          a way for people to pre-order
                          copies at a discount.
                           
                           
                           
                          User Group Meeting
                          ------------------
                           
                          At SIGGRAPH '99 in Los Angeles, we will be holding a RenderMan
                          User Group meeting on Wednesday, August 11, 1999, from
                          7:00pm-8:30pm at the Wilshire Grand Hotel & Center.  This is a
                          time to see demos and announcements of RenderMan-related
                          products, meet and ask questions of the developers of your
                          favorite renderers, as well as generally
                          socialize and network with your counterparts at other studios.
                           
                          Furthermore, the user group meeting will feature a new
                          activity... 
                           
                           
                           
                           
                          The First More-or-Less-Annual "Stupid RenderMan Tricks" Contest
                          ---------------------------------------------------------------
                           
                          When is it?
                           
                            During the RenderMan User's Group meeting at SIGGRAPH '99.
                           
                           
                          What is it?
                           
                            Over the years, we've taught several courses on the theory
                          and   practice of RenderMan.  We try to invite users from
                          studios to   participate, but there's never enough time for us
                          to include everybody   who has done something cool or has
                          something to teach.  So we intend   to remedy this by allowing
                          users a forum to teach and share at the   annual user group
                          meeting.
                           
                           
                          How do I enter?
                           
                            Easy.  First, think of something cool you'd like to talk
                          about.  It   could be a neat shader trick, a renderer or an
                          extension thereof, a   clever way to munge RIB files, a tool
                          you've written, hints, tips,   and war stories from
                          productions, whatever.  In short, anything   remotely related
                          to RenderMan and its use, which would be interesting   to TD's
                          and other users of RenderMan renderers.
                           
                            Second, you write up a short description (a couple paragraphs
                          is okay)   and send it to lg@pixar.com.  Clearly mark the
                          subject of the email
                            as "Stupid RMan Tricks Submission."  Attaching images is
                          fine.  All   submission materials will be strictly
                          confidential.  Send submissions   before July 1, 1999.
                           
                            An elite team of renderer authors headed by lg will judge the
                            submissions, choosing the coolest 5-6 for presentation at the
                          user   group meeting.  You will be notified of our decision by
                          the second   week of July.  All decisions by the jury are
                          final!
                           
                           
                          What happens if the jury likes my submission?
                           
                            Chosen presenters get 5 minutes in front of the other users
                          at the   user group meeting, an overhead projector, a videotape
                          player,   and an open mike.  Dazzle us, confuse us, make us
                          smart!
                           
                            For those materials that you're allowed to distribute
                          (example shader   code or whatever), I'll also set up a web
                          site on which we can put   the materials so that others may
                          access them after the meeting. 
                           
                           
                          Are there prizes?
                           
                            Yes.
                           
                           
                          Can I just show my demo reel?
                           
                            NO!  It's not enough to just show pretty pictures.  You need
                          to say   how they were done, ideally with figures, shader code
                          fragments,   vigorous hand-waving, etc. 
                           
                           
                          Does it really have to be "stupid?"
                           
                            No, we want clever.  I was just trying to be funny.  But the
                          jury   will be biased toward presentations that exhibit a sick
                          and twisted   sense of what can be done with RenderMan.  Bonus
                          points and special   preference will be given to proposals that
                          cause jurors to say any   of the following out loud:
                           
                          "I never would have thought of that."
                          "Wicked cool!"
                          "I've gotta try this out."
                          "I didn't know you could do that with my renderer."
                          "Are they nuts?  What are they smoking down there in L.A.?"
                          "Huh?" [while squinting and cocking head to side]
                           
                           
                          Enter early.  Enter often.  See you all at SIGGRAPH,
                           
                          -- lg
                           
                          -- 
                          Larry Gritz     Pixar Animation Studios
                          lg@pixar.com     Richmond, CA
