http://corporate.pixar.com/news/20020516-80816.cfm


Pixar Animation Studios Files Trade Secret, Copyright and
                                    Patent Infringement Claims Against Exluna

                                    EMERYVILLE, CA, May 16, 2002 - Pixar Animation Studios (Nasdaq: PIXR) today
                                    announced that it has filed an amended complaint charging Exluna, Inc. with
                                    misappropriation of trade secrets, copyright infringement and patent infringement. The
                                    amended complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern
                                    District of California. 

                                    The amended complaint alleges that Exluna, which was formed by three former Pixar
                                    employees, has misappropriated trade secrets from Pixar?s RenderMan5, a program
                                    used to develop animated movies. The amended complaint also charges Exluna with
                                    infringement of Pixar?s RenderMan5 copyrights and Pixar?s U.S. Patent No. 4,897,806.




ixar Animation Studios and Exluna Settle Lawsuit

                                    EMERYVILLE, CA, July 22, 2002 - Pixar Animation Studios (Nasdaq: PIXR) today
                                    announced it has settled its lawsuit against Exluna, Inc. The settlement resolves all
                                    pending litigation and any other disputes between the two companies. Exluna, a
                                    privately-held software company specializing in software development technology for
                                    film quality graphics rendering, was charged with the misappropriation of trade secrets,
                                    copyright infringement and patent infringement. 


 http://corporate.pixar.com/news/20020722-85830.cfm

                                   In a separate announcement today, NVIDIA Corporation (Nasdaq: NVDA) announced
                                    the acquisition of Exluna, Inc. The acquisition is part of NVIDIA?s strategy to bring
                                    cinematic quality to real-time graphics and adds core engineering competency and
                                    intellectual property to its recently announced Cg (C for Graphics) strategy
                                    (http://www.nvidia.com/view.asp?IO=cg). 



 Exluna sued by Pixar! - 5th March 2002  

                  Wow - really interesting developments! Pixar has filed a lawsuit claiming that Exluna has infringed its patents for rendering computer
                  animated images. I haven't seen the details yet, but it would appear this is based on a Pixar patent for Monte Carlo sampling techniques
                  (possibly this one) mainly used in motion blur in PRman. You can read a bit more on the story from the Detroit news. As you probably know
                  Larry Gritz, Head of Entropy Research and Development, along with Matt Pharr, Craig Kolb and Doug Epps all used to work for Pixar.
                  Exluna has posted an official response on their website.

                  Speaking personally - and I am not a lawyer - but this is precisely why all the secrecy occurred before the first release of Entropy and why
                  motion blur and depth of field are no longer present in BMRT. Anyway it doesn't help the image of Pixar at all. 